Add MQTT lawn mower platform (#28663)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/lawn_mower.mqtt.markdown

---
title: "MQTT Lawn Mower"

> description: "Instructions on how to integrate MQTT Lawn Mower's into Home Assistant."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Instructions on how to integrate MQTT lawn mowers into Home Assistant."
```

ha_category:
  - Lawn Mower
ha_release: 2023.9
ha_iot_class: Configurable
ha_domain: mqtt
---

> The `mqtt` `lawn_mower` platform allows control a Lawn Mower over MQTT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `mqtt` `lawn_mower` platform allows controlling a lawn mower over MQTT.
```

## Configuration

To enable MQTT Lawn Mower in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
mqtt:
  - lawn_mower:
      command_topic: topic
      name: "Test Lawn Mower"
```

{% configuration %}
activity_state_topic:

>   description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive update of the activity. Valid activities are `mowing`, `paused`, `docked` and `error`. Use `value_template` to extract the activity state from a custom payload. When payload `none` is received the activity state will be reset to `unknown`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive an update of the activity. Valid activities are `mowing`, `paused`, `docked`, and `error`. Use `value_template` to extract the activity state from a custom payload. When payload `none` is received, the activity state will be reset to `unknown`.  
```

  required: false
  type: string
activity_value_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the value."
  required: false
  type: template
availability:
  description: A list of MQTT topics subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability_topic`.
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    payload_available:
      description: The payload that represents the available state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: online
    payload_not_available:
      description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: offline
    topic:
      description: An MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates.
      required: true
      type: string
    value_template:

>       description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the device's availability from the `topic`. To determine the device's availability, the result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."
```

      required: false
      type: template
availability_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability`.
  required: false
  type: string
availability_mode:
   description: When `availability` is configured, this controls the conditions needed to set the entity to `available`. Valid entries are `all`, `any`, and `latest`. If set to `all`, `payload_available` must be received on all configured availability topics before the entity is marked as online. If set to `any`, `payload_available` must be received on at least one configured availability topic before the entity is marked as online. If set to `latest`, the last `payload_available` or `payload_not_available` received on any configured availability topic controls the availability.
   required: false
   type: string
   default: latest
availability_template:

>   description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `availability_topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract device's availability from the `availability_topic`. To determine the devices's availability, the result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."
```

  required: false
  type: template
device:

>   description: "Information about the device this Lawn Mower is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works when [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set. At least one of identifiers or connections must be present to identify the device."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "Information about the device this lawn mower is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works when the [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set. At least one of the identifiers or connections must be present to identify the device."
```

  required: false
  type: map
  keys:
    configuration_url:

>       description: 'A link to the webpage that can manage the configuration of this device. Can be either an `http://`, `https://` or an internal `homeassistant://` URL.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: 'A link to the webpage that can manage the configuration of this device. Can be either an `http://`, `https://`, or an internal `homeassistant://` URL.'
```

      required: false
      type: string
    connections:

>       description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": ["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]`.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example, the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": ["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]`.'
```

      required: false
      type: list
    hw_version:
      description: The hardware version of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    identifiers:

>       description: 'A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example a serial number.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: 'A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example, a serial number.'
```

      required: false
      type: [list, string]
    manufacturer:
      description: The manufacturer of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    model:
      description: The model of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    name:
      description: The name of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    suggested_area:
      description: 'Suggest an area if the device isn’t in one yet.'
      required: false
      type: string
    sw_version:
      description: The firmware version of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    via_device:

>       description: 'Identifier of a device that routes messages between this device and Home Assistant. Examples of such devices are hubs, or parent devices of a sub-device. This is used to show device topology in Home Assistant.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: 'Identifier of a device that routes messages between this device and Home Assistant. Examples of such devices are hubs or parent devices of a sub-device. This is used to show the device topology in Home Assistant.'
```

      required: false
      type: string
dock_command_template:
  description: Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to generate the payload to send to `dock_command_topic`. The `value` parameter in the template will be set to `dock`.
  required: false
  type: template
dock_command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic that publishes commands when the service `lawn_mower.dock` service call is executed. The value `dock` is published when the service is called. Use a `dock_command_template` to publish a custom format.
  required: false
  type: string
enabled_by_default:
  description: Flag which defines if the entity should be enabled when first added.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: true
encoding:

>   description: The encoding of the payloads received and published messages. Set to `""` to disable decoding of incoming payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: The encoding of the payloads received and published messages. Set to `""` to disable decoding of the incoming payload.
```

  required: false
  type: string
  default: "utf-8"
entity_category:
  description: The [category](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/core/entity#generic-properties) of the entity.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: None
icon:
  description: "[Icon](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/#icon) for the entity."
  required: false
  type: icon
json_attributes_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`."
  required: false
  type: template
json_attributes_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive a JSON dictionary payload and then set as entity attributes. Implies `force_update` of the current activity state when a message is received on this topic.
  required: false
  type: string
name:

>   description: The name of the Lawn Mower. Can be set to `null` if only the device name is relevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: The name of the lawn mower. Can be set to `null` if only the device name is relevant.
```

  required: false
  type: string
object_id:
  description: Used instead of `name` for automatic generation of `entity_id`
  required: false
  type: string
optimistic:
  description: Flag that defines if the lawn mower works in optimistic mode.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: "`true` if no `state_topic` defined, else `false`."
pause_command_template:
  description: Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to generate the payload to send to `pause_command_topic`. The `value` parameter in the template will be set to `pause`.
  required: false
  type: template
pause_command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic that publishes commands when the service `lawn_mower.pause` service call is executed. The value `pause` is published when the service is called. Use a `pause_command_template` to publish a custom format.
  required: false
  type: string
qos:

>   description: The maximum QoS level of the state topic. Default is 0 and will also be used to publishing messages.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand this. Is this saying that 0 is also used to publish messages?

Author: I'll have a look. I actually copy pasted that part.

Author: Found some more occurrences that need refrasing, will open a new PR targetting `current` for those once we agree on this one.

>   description: The maximum QoS level of the subscriptions on state topics. This also sets the QoS when publishing messages.

Author: ```suggestion
  description: The maximum QoS level to be used when receiving and publishing messages.
```

  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
start_mowing_template:
  description: Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#using-templates-with-the-mqtt-integration) to generate the payload to send to `dock_command_topic`. The `value` parameter in the template will be set to `dock`.
  required: false
  type: template
start_mowing_command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic that publishes commands when the service `lawn_mower.start_mowing` service call is executed. The value `start_mowing` is published when the service is called. Use a `start_mowing_command_template` to publish a custom format.
  required: false
  type: string
retain:
  description: If the published message should have the retain flag on or not.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
unique_id:

>   description: An ID that uniquely identifies this Lawn Mower. If two Lawn Mower's have the same unique ID Home Assistant will raise an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: An ID that uniquely identifies this lawn mower. If two lawn mowers have the same unique ID, Home Assistant will raise an exception.
```
